---
layout: post
title: Cookies Study
subtitle: 
cover-img: [/assets/img/cover/security1.jpg, /assets/img/cover/security2.jpg, /assets/img/cover/security3.jpg]
thumbnail-img: 
share-img:
tags: [cookies, same-origin-policy, cross-origin, cors]
categories: [Security]
---

## Abstract
Review cookies again. It seems that I already understand it, but in fact it is very profound and there are many things I don’t understand.

<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->

* [Cookies basics](#cookies-basics)
  * [First-party and third-party cookies](#first-party-and-third-party-cookies)
  * [A number of security and privacy concerns](#a-number-of-security-and-privacy-concerns)
* [References](#references)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

## Cookies basics
- Each cookie is a key-value pair along with a number of attributes that control when and where that cookie is used.
- You can set a cookie in an HTTP header or through JavaScript interface.
- Each cookie is a key-value pair along with a number of attributes that control when and where that cookie is used.

### First-party and third-party cookies
- Cookies that match the domain of the current site, that is, what's displayed in the browser's address bar, are referred to as first-party cookies.
- Cookies from domains other than the current site are referred to as third-party cookies.

### A number of security and privacy concerns
- Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks rely on the fact that cookies are attached to any request to a given origin, no matter who initiates the request.
- You can explicitly state your intent with a cookie by setting the appropriate SameSite attribute.
- By default,
  - cookies can be shared across sites
  - accessed by JavaScript
  - sent over HTTP connections, which comes with some privacy and security risks. 


## References
- [Understanding cookies](https://web.dev/articles/understanding-cookies)
- [SameSite cookies explained](https://web.dev/articles/samesite-cookies-explained)
- [Developers: Get Ready for New SameSite=None; Secure Cookie Settings](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/10/developers-get-ready-for-new.html)
- [XSS、CSRF、CORS、Same-orign policy、cookieとかの整理](https://zenn.dev/dove/articles/3dc0b8603db3fd)

